---
title: Pursuit of Simplicity
description: Simplicity
author: Abhinav Sharma 
author-email: abhi18av@outlook.com
author-url: http://twitter.com/abhi18av
author-github: abhi18av
author-twitter: abhi18av
author-avatar: /images/anton-avatar.png
location: New York, USA
date-created: 2013-12-27
date-modified: 2013-12-30
date-published: 2013-12-27
headline: Simplicity
in-language: en
keywords: simplicity, clojure
canonical-url: http://blog.hashobject.com/celebrare-gutture
uuid: d24343f7-de07-4ae8-a79e-090f346eddf2
tags:
 - simplicity
 - clojure
---

## Pursuit of Simplicity 

This entire pursuit of mine, this drive towards simplicity was inspired by Rich Hickey in most part and my own experience - trying to debug code and of course the sheer horror I felt when I felt relucatant to read my own code! You know, I’ve realized that programming is actually a lot like literature; if you ever wish to write and understand good code you ought to read it. The art of expressing ideas in code is, well tough already but let’s not entangle it even more. Python ( Anaconda) was such a breath of fresh air for someone coming from C++ drudgery and being really wary of Java. Man, Python let me do things I’d not do otherwise - Analytics, Data Visualization, System Utility scripts , Web Development and even a bit of OCR and Machine Translation. But I wanted more, Python is so beautiful but still I wanted more, something a lot more flexible which at the same time makes my time using it a good investment for future. Julia is far too young to be a good alternative just now, but it’s really promising.

I never really accessed the Object Oriented aspect of Python computing anyhow, I spent most of my time within the Procedural and increasingly within the Functional world. All the while knowing full well that there’s the promised land of computing in Functional Programming, yearning to be able to use tools which stick with me no matter what I do and be a tool for my thought, something flexible and simple. I’d heard of Clojure for a couple years but I believed that Racket(Scheme) was the LISP I’d really like to use, since Common Lisp really just seemed dead. But the moment I wanted to code as an exploration of concepts I didn’t quite understand fully well myself most of everything I knew felt too stiff. That’s when I gave a shot to Clojure - been absolutely in Love ever since. I’ve even found a soft corner for Java as an Enterprise Procedural/Object Oriented language, hoping that I’d only rarely have to dwell deep in the foreign lands:)

I am sure that when I look back after a few years towards that moment when my attitude and approch towards problem solving and solution design changed - this video is gonna be a huge part of the shift in my thinking!


