---
title: A New Hope
layout: post
date: 2017-03-20 20:00
image:
description: Shifting the focus of my Career
tag:
  - IILC
  - BioInformatics
blog: true
jemoji:
author: Abhinav Sharma
---

The IILC institute [replied yesterday]() and I am somewhat delighted from this gesture. But I'm not sure what am I supposed to do regarding how best can I use this year, my mind filled with lots and lots of question marks and what-ifs regarding my career.

I do have a certain project in mind regarding the [HOTT book](), [Lean Prover]() , [OCaml]() and the [Julia]() language but the idea is still pretty vague. Thinking this out would require a certain amount of time - something that I've almost run out of.

Moreover I'm now under immense pressure to establish a means of earning and in the worst case scenario - get a job.

Honestly speaking, my spirits are almost at an all time low now and I did bet everything on the selection in this Masters course and scholarship. Ah, well - shit happens.

I feel I need a new beginning and something that doesn't come with as much of a baggage as my previous experience, i.e. Industrial and the Academic - both of which are admittedly quite incomplete but sufficient.  

I've really thought things out over the last couple weeks and I've decided to shift the major focus on BioInformatics and, if at all possible, solve the questions in the High School/ Engineering mathematics using [SageMath](). BioInformatics seems quite exiting as there are so many aspects of computation that are used to reason about the Biological world and structures. From Algorithms to Big Data Processing and from Image processing to Data Science, almost everything has a certain application in BioInformatics.

This biggest reason that I've explored this one out is that it's still *feels* honest to me. And, believe me, I'd much rather do Data Science or any computer related work for something that's inspiring and honest. Life is too short to make things that people don't want, to make Ads, Apps, WebSites.

I'd not be a part of this frenzy of technology that envokes *numbness* in our lives, rather I'd work hard to use the computer principles and the best of my abilities to help understand this world better.

BioInformatics, it is.
